0.0aﬁdfgh2020

 

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

 

INTRODUCTION

ocumentary is the creative analysis
of actuality." It is that special
combination of faith-fulness to the
real and authentic and attention to
artistry and personal vision that
defines this distinctive genre and
that invites such a broad variety of
humanists and technophiles into its
fold.

 
 
  
 
 

The African International Documentary

Festival (AFIDF) is an Intercontinental gateway
and platform for all majoring in African Diaspora
Documentary Studies and those seeking an understanding

of its infinite forms. It is also an excellent opportunity for all African

Diaspora documentarians to obtain a general introduction to the theoretical and practical
approaches to documentary work in radio/audio, video/film, hypermedia/multimedia,
photography, and long-form nonfiction writing. The AFIDF festival will cover both the
history and rudimentary skills involved in the production of each documentary mode,
placing a strong emphasis on linking the research methods of the social sciences and the
humanistic concerns of the arts, media archives and archival research, ethical and legal
issues associated with documentary research and production, the history and theory of
documentary photography, film, radio, long-form non-fiction prose and documentary
editing—as well as the newest documentary genre, hypermedia.

Africa/Diaspora nonfiction research-base films, radio programs, hypermedia presentations,
photographs, and long—form analytical narratives shed light on the world of Africa/African
Dia. They portray real people, events, and situations--but with an aesthetic sensibility that
transforms these depictions into compelling statements about all aspects of our social,
cultural, political, and economic lives.

 

The Renaissance Of African
J Diaspora Documentary

[—

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

The Renaissance Of African
Diaspora Documentary

VALUE STATEMENT:

"Our values and work will be guided and
informed by our beliefs and commitments to:
Discovery: Explore and bring to light new
knowledge and ideas.

Creativity: Instill our work with imagination
and innovation

Excellence: Deliver the highest-quality African
Diaspora documentaries

Diversity: Capitalize on the cultural richness
inherent in differences

Integrity: Carry out all our work with the
greatest responsibility and accountability.
Service: Be of benefit to the public and our
stakeholders

lnclusiveness: we respect people, value diversity
and are committed to equality.

Participation: we value and recognise the
contribution of volunteers within organisations
and communities.

Quality: we strive for excellence through
continuous improvement.

Openness: we are committed to a culture of
teamwork and collaboration

VISION STATEMENT

AFIDF will set the standard and

be the recognized leader in
African Diaspora documentary
information management practice,
education, certification, research,
and advocacy

MISSION STATEMENT

African International Documentary
Festival (AFIDF) presents an
independent and inspiring meeting place for
audiences and professionals to see a diverse and
high-quality African Diaspora program. The diverse
nature of the event applies to the form and content
of the African documentary films as well as to the
cultural backgrounds of the filmmakers. AFIDF also
offers an alternative to African Diaspora mass
entertainment and uniformity, confirming that there
is an increasing need in audiences for African
Diaspora high-quality films that delve deep and urge
us to reflect

 

   

RENAISSANCE

$REATIVE

DQCUMEWM‘CJ

The renaissance creative documentary is AFIDF's point of
documentarians and film 1makers observation. These are
documentaries that are visually striking and express the story
writers/filmmaker's vision. The documentarians make artistic
choices in the use of cinematic means (image, sound and editing)
to convey his or her vision on the subject matter and tell the story.
This artistic demand is the festival's most crucial selection
criterion originality, expressiveness and cultural and/or historical
value play an important role as well.

African Diaspora Renaissance Creative documentaries will also
offer new insights into the African Diaspora cultural society—they
open our eyes and stimulate our critical thinking power. AFIDF
strives to screen ﬁlms with urgent African Diaspora social themes
that reflect the spirit of the time in which they are made. They do
not reiterate the reality of yesterday or today's African Diaspora,
as this is thejob ofthe news media. News can break us down when
it's about Africa and her stories, but background stories do the
opposite. They offer nuance and provide insight, making
reflection on past and current events possible. AFIDF considers

this kind of social function to be crucial in its evaluation of '

documentary submissions.

Finally, AFIDF searches for African Diaspora documentaries that

touches and moves the viewer. The power of a great documentary

is when it succeeds in touching its viewers and getting them to
feel uncomfortable, softening us up or making us laugh with its
striking storylines. AFIDF strives to be an accessible African
Diaspora festival, to reach people of all walks of life and function
as a true African Diaspora experience for as diverse an audience as
possible

 

0%

The Renaissance Of African
Diaspora Documentary

[—

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

   
       

1.

:- "-‘t—Q'x. l

AFIDF focuses on talent, new media and African
Diaspora cultural diversity. These focal points are
implemented over the entire breadth of the AFIDF
event: not only in the festival programming, but also
in the aforementioned activities for African Diaspora
film professionals. They are key in furtherdeveloping
the genre, guaranteeing the multiformity of the
African Diaspora documentary landscape, offering
audiences and professionals varied stories and
perspectives that lead to high-quality reflection on
Africa and her people in the diaspora solidifying
AFIDF's own special position.

FOCUS PROGRAMS

Explore the AFIDF 2020 focus programs Me, Space,
and Serialized.

The year 2020 AFIDF introduces the thematic focus
programs, Me, Space, and Serialized. Whether
examining personal histories of the filmmaker,
exploring the use of physical space in documentaries,
or investigating new serial formats, these selections
tackle complex questions through a combination of
new films and classics.

ME 25 ITEMS
AFIDF presents a main focus program, Me, about the
personal and autobiographical documentary film.
Me is a selection of different cinematic expressions
by filmmakers whose study of themselves is both a
journey into their own private history as well as an
artistic exploration. The program consists of around
20 documentaries, both classics and premieres, from
different regions of Africa and the diaspora, made by
both a new generation of filmmakers as well as
established auteurs. Many of the filmmakers will be
discussing their films at the festival.

SPACE10ITEMS

In AFIDF's long-running series about the art of
documentary filmmaking, the year 2020 focus will be
on the use ofspace in film. Atotal often new films will
be selected for this program, in which space plays a
crucial role in many different ways and on different
levels. After the films, hosts will interview the
directors about their use of space.

SERIALIZED 5 ITEMS

AFIDF's focus program Serialized experiments with
the format of documentary series within a festival
setting. We present five series, both web
documentaries and lineardocumentaries

 

 

AFIDF LOS ANGELES 2020

Submissions for AFIDF Los Angeles 2020 documentary films and
interactive/immersive projects to be considered for the
1st edition of AFIDF, taking place November 20th to 23rd, 2020

SUBMISSION DEADLINES

Ourtwo submission deadlines are:
May25th. 2020—for all films and projects
August1st, 2019—for all films and projects

We encourage you to submit your work as soon
as it is completed.

Please read the regulations carefully before
submitting your documentary film or
interactive/immersive project. For any
questions about submitting your work, take
a look at our AFIDF submission FAQs and
DocLab submission FAQs, or get in touch
with us. The online entry forms are available
through MyAFIDF in the section 'My Entries'.

What's special in AFIDF program sect-ions?

The year 2020, we are pleased to announce that
the program sections Frontlight, Luminous, Best
of Fests, Masters, and Paradocs are open to
films of any duration, including short films. The
AFIDF Competition for Short Documen-tary will
only accept Africa, world and international
premieres. This program section is included in
our entry form and will be officially open for
submissions. Finally, the AFIDF award structure
will be further developed in 2020. We look

 

0%

forward to sharing the details of these
developments with you soon.

Updates to the submission process

To help facilitate the submission process, there
are now separate entry forms for AFIDF and
AFIDF DocLab. Likewise, you will find separate
FAQ pages for submitting films and submitting
interactive/immersive projects.

Accessibility

As part of our ongoing commitment to
delivering an inclusive festival experience, we
are working to remove several access barriers in
our programming for the year 2020, If your film
is selected, we encourage you to provide more
accessible film formats when possible. We will
contact you about whether you have a version
available with full English subtitles, Closed
Captioning and/or Descriptive Sound. For more
information, please see our accessibility page.
Closed Captioned (CC): Display of text on a
screen to provide additional or interpretive
information.

Descriptive Sound (DS): A digitally compatible
described narration system for the blind and
visually impaired with headphones.

The Renaissance Of African
Diaspora Documentary

[—

Ill
Cr

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

 

AFIDF Competition for Feature-Length
Documentary #items AFIDF's feature-length
competition from established African Diaspora
documentary filmmakers. From intense visual
experiences to intimate portraits, a great diversity
of style and form typifies the festival selection.

AFIDF Competition for First Appearance - #items

A strong selection of films from emerging African
Diaspora documentary filmmakers, who gave it their all
fortheir debut film.

AFIDF Competition for Mid-Length Documentary# items

Mid-Length Documentary to carve out a new space for

imagination.

AFIDF DocLab Competition for Digital Storytelling #items Web documentaries, multimedia
photography, audio walks, virtual reality, games, and augmented reality.

AFIDF DocLab Competition for Immersive Non-Fiction #items
The DocLab Competition for Immersive Non-Fiction.

AFIDF Competition for Continental African Documentary #items
The competition consists of films by well-known and often award-winning African filmmakers, but
also by promising new talent.

AFIDF Competition for Diaspora African Documentary# items
The competition consists of films by well-known and often award-winning Diaspora African
filmmakers, but also by promising new talent.

AFIDF Competition for Student Documentary# items

Competition for Student Documentary filmmakers of the future with a fresh view of the African
Diaspora world, and searching for a cinematographic signature. In this edition, the next generation
looking emphatically across borders of the African continent, and strives for authorship.

AFIDF Competition for Short Documentary
Films that reflect aesthetic exploration and bold cultural approach.

AFIDF Competition for Kids 8L Docs

Elevating the form, content, and future of Africa's youth documentary

In addition to the competition program, five other awards will be presented during AFIDF.
You will fin ~ erview of these awards and more information about attending the award

cerem e ' ‘

     
 

 

AFIDF PRO Audience Award

All competition documentary films and films compete for the AFIDF PRO Audience Award, worth cash prizes.
During the festival, you can keep track of the audience score in real-time on our homepage via the daily Top
10 section, as well as under the festival menu.

The announcement of the winner will take place on the last day of the festival during a AFIDF PRO TV
recording in the —theater. After the presentation, the winning film will be screened. Access to the ﬁlm is only
possible after attending the TV recording.

Friday, November—theatre

Made possible by AFIDF PRO

Tickets for awa rd ceremony 8L screening

AFRICAN DIASPORA HUMAN RIGHTS AWARD

For the first time in 2020, AFIDF will introduce the African Diaspora Human Rights Award—a prestigious
international documentary prize from the African Union —will be presented at AFIDF , to the documentary
which best represents the theme of human rights. The winning film will receive a cash prize (to be shared by
the director(s) and main producer).

On Tuesday, November 20, 2020 Universal Children's Day, these films will be screened, usually followed by a
discussion with the directors.

Tuesday, November 20, 2020 from Los Angeles to va rious theaters in New York and Chicago.

AFRICAN DIASPORA CULTU REWARDS

A documentary talent with a financial contribution of cash prize, with which the filmmaker gets the
opportunity to make a film about a subject of his or her choosing. The stipend is intended for documentary
makers who have already proven their quality in practice, and have already received some recognition for
theirwork. The Documentary Stipend is awarded during the festival.

NYANXFILM DocLab Interactive Grant

The NYANXFILM DocLab Interactive Grant Film is a cash prize for the development of interactive projects on
African soil. The conditions are that the projects focus on collective experience, and contain an element of
research. The winning projects will be been selected from the AFIDF DocLab 2019 selection, media program.

NYANXFILM Talent Award

On Thursday, November 1 5 the NYANXFILM Talent

During the AFIDFAcademyworkshop, six emerging documentary talents work for a number of months on the
development and elaboration ofa documentary idea under the guidance of renowned documentary makers.
The winner receives a cash prize from the NYANXFILM fund for the development of a trailer, allowing the
winner the opportunity to further develop his or her plan in collaboration with a producer and one of the
broadcasters. The winner can then submit an application to the NYANXFILM for a contribution to the
realization ofthe project.

 

The Renaissance Of African
J Diaspora Documentary

[—

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

 

ESTIVAL ENTRY REGULATIOIF

AFIDF Los Angeles 2020

Entry for AFIDF Los Angeles 2020 will be opened August2019. Read the regulations below.

The 1st African International Documentary Festival Los Angeles 2020, including its new media
program AFIDF DocLab, takes place November 20-25, 2020. The regulations stated here apply only
to AFIDF; for further information and the regulations of AFIDF's markets and educational programs,
go to Docs for Sale, AFIDF Forum, AFIDF NYAN KOM Fund, AFIDFAcademy or DocLab Academy.

Go to the entry form Go to the DocLab entry form

 

 

1 General entry requirements

2 Entry requirements per section

3 Requirements for AFIDFAcademy results and films supported by the AFIDF NYAN KOM Fund
4 How to enter your film

5 Selection procedure, required items, and authorizations

6Transport and insurance

7 Accommodation expenses

8 Juries and awards

9 TAX

10 Address and contact information

1. General entry requirements

Deadlines for entry 2020

May 25, 2020 for documentaries completed between August, 2019 and April, 2020,

August, 2020 for documentaries completed afterApril 2019.

We encourage you to submit your documentary as soon as it is completed.

Format, language and version

AFIDF must receive a completed AFIDF entry form, an online screener, and payment ofthe $50 entry
fee (excl. TAX). Please note that the entry fee is non—refundable.

Details for your online screener should be filled out in the entry form. Please note that it is your
responsibilityto make sure the password is valid up until December2020 (see 4).

AFIDF does not accept links or submissions via e-mail.

AFIDF considers creative films and new media projects in any format and of any duration. Please
check entry requirements per section below (see 2) for specific duration requirements.

If your film is selected for the festival, AFIDF accepts the following screening format: DCP (2K/4K).
AFIDF requires all DCPs to be in XYZ colorspace encoded in JPEGZOOO. Presentation of other formats
and video systems requires authorization from the Festival. These requirements do not apply to new
media projects submitted to AFIDF DocLab (see below).

Documentaries will be presented to a general audience as well as professionals. The documentaries
will be presented with English dialogue or in their original versions with English subtitles. We advise
you to also subtitle films if they are spoken in English which is hard to grasp for non-native speakers,
i.e. an accent or slang.

Rejected works-in-progress cannot be resubmitted when a newer version is available, nor for the
following year.

Documentaries that have been submitted for consideration in previous years are not eligible, not

even if the film has changed significantly since the last time it was submitted.

It is the sole responsibility of the applicant to secure clearance from the copyright holders of any
copyrighted materials included within the submitted film. AFIDF will not be held responsible for the
unauthorized inclusion of copyrighted materials within or relating to the submitted film. AFIDF
reserves the right to disqualify any film with unauthorized inclusion of copyrighted materials.

AFIDF is under no obligation to provide comments or feedback regarding the submitted film to the
applicant or any other representative of the submitted film.

Ifthe documentarydoes not meet all ofthese requirements, it will not be eligibleforselection.

2. Entry requirements per section

AFIDF will select some 200 new documentaries each year for various competition, regular and focus
programs. The general entry requirements above apply to all program sections, unless it is stated
otherwise below. Please see our FAQ page in case you are unsure about the premiere status or
country of production ofyour film.

2.1 . AFIDF Competition for Feature-Length Documentary

Forfilms longerthan 70 minutes.

Only world, international and African Diaspora premieres are accepted; priority is given to
African/Diaspora premieres.

For African/Diaspora productions only African premieres can be accepted.

AFIDF allows a maximum of two festival or market screenings prior to AFIDF . Market screenings
within USA require authorization from the festival.

National theatrical release or television broadcast is permitted.

Films that have been internationally broadcast, available online, or have been released via streaming,
home video or any other public platform are not eligible.

In addition to regular screenings all films selected for our AFIDF Competition for Feature-Length
documentary will have a Press 8L Industry screening

2.2. AFIDF Competition for First Appearance

Forfilms longerthan 70 minutes.

Open to first feature-length films only. Graduation projects from film schools or universities should
be submitted for the AFIDF Competition for Student Documentary (section 2.7). First feature-length
films made after film school are eligible for the AFIDF Competition for First Appearance.

Only world, international, and African/Diaspora premieres are accepted; priority is given to
African/Diaspora premieres.

For African productions only African/Diaspora premieres can be accepted.

AFIDF allows a maximum of two festival or market screenings prior to AFIDF. Market screenings
within USA require authorization from the festival.

National theatrical release or television broadcast is permitted.

Films that have been internationally broadcast, available online, or will been released via streaming,
home video or any other public platform are not eligible.

9 The Renaissance Of African
Diaspora Documentary

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

2.3. AFIDF Competition for Mid-Length Documentary

Forfilms between 40 and 70 minutes.

Only African/Diaspora, world, international premieres are accepted; priority is given to
African/Diaspora premieres.

For African/Diaspora productions only African/Diaspora premieres can be accepted.

AFIDF allows a maximum of two festival or market screenings prior to AFIDF. Market screenings
within USA require authorization from the festival.

National theatrical release or television broadcast is permitted.

Films that have been internationally broadcast, available online, or have been released via streaming,
home video or any other public platform are not eligible.

2.4. AFIDF Competition for African Documentary

Forfilms longerthan 40 minutes.

Open to African productions only. If the film's director(s) and/or main producer(s) are based in Africa,
the film will be regarded as being an African production.

OnlyAfrican premieres can be accepted.

Films that have been internationally broadcast, are available online, or have been released via
streaming, home video or any other public platform are not eligible.

2.5. AFIDF DocLab Competition &AFIDF DocLab New Media Program

AFIDF DocLab is open to all sorts of works that use new media to represent reality, ranging from
digital non-fiction storytelling and art to physical installations, virtual reality experiences, live
performances, and multimedia projects. For reference, see the AFIDF DocLab page. For frequently
asked questions, see the DocLab FAQ page.

Submitted projects will be considered:

(1) for the AFIDF DocLab Competition,

(2) as an installation for ourfestival exhibition,

(3) as a performance at our live cinema events and/or
(4) for the AFIDF DocLab Online Database.

Projects selected for the competition program are eligible for the AFIDF DocLab Award for Digital
Storytelling or the AFIDF DocLab Immersive Non-Fiction Award.

We can view projects on most platforms/devices, including MAC, PC, iOS, Android, Steam, Sony
Playstation, Xbox, Oculus Go, Samsung Gear, HTC Vive or Google Daydream/cardboard.

Projects should be submitted via a password-protected (streaming) link, a download link to the VR
build/360 video file (preferably by Dropbox/Google Drive), an app download package, or game
install.

For performances, installations or for projects that cannot be sent digitally, please provide extensive
visual and written documentation.
The AFIDF DocLab program and competition are open to unreleased projects, as well as projects that

:1

F
f.'.'
:1-
4:"
on;

.

i'-

'

I
l

. 'I.
The Rend'lisarte Of African

r'\ '
. ‘ Diasporadzchme'n‘t'ary

i \|
I i
'l- I'

 

A

l "" AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

have not yet been presented at other events or festivals.

Other media activities at AFIDF include the DocLab Academy training program, the DocLab
Interactive Conference, and the Crossmedia Forum for projects seeking international co-financing.
Forfurther details and deadlines, see the AFIDF DocLab page.

2.6. AFIDF Competition for Short Documentary

Forfilms upto40 minutes.

Only world, international, and African/Diaspora premieres are accepted; priority is given to
African/Diaspora premieres.

African productions may have been screened or broadcast in the USA priorto being presented to an
international audience at AFIDF, although priority will be given to African/Diaspora, world and
international premieres.

2.7. AFIDF Competition for Student Documentary

Open to films ofanyduration.

Open to (graduation) films for a film school/university. AFIDF will not accept docu mentary exercises.
African/Diaspora, World and international premieres are eligible.

African/Diaspora productions may have been screened or broadcast in the USA or Africa prior to
being presented to an international audience at AFIDF, although priority will be given to
African/Diaspora premieres.

2.8. AFIDF Competition for Kids 8!. Docs

Open to films ofany duration.

Open to films made for children up to 13 years ofage.

African/Diaspora, World, international premieres are eligible.

African/Diaspora productions may have been screened or broadcast in USA and Africa prior to being
presented to an international audience at AFIDF, although priority will be given to African/Diaspora
world, international premieres.

2.9. Best of Fests

International non-competitive section consisting of African films that have made an impact on the
international film festival circuit.

Open to films ofany duration.

Screening or TV broadcast in the USA and Africa prior to the festival makes the submission ineligible.
Priority is given to African/Diaspora premieres.

Films that are available online or have been released via streaming, home video or any other public
platform are not eligible.

2.10. Masters
International non-competitive section consisting of films made by renowned Africa/Diaspora
(documentary) filmmakers.

1 1 The Renaissance Of African
Diaspora Documentary

—|

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

Open to films ofany duration.

Screening or TV broadcast in the USA/Africa prior to the festival makes the submission ineligible.
Priority is given to African/Diaspora premieres.

Films that are available online or have been released via streaming, home video or any other public
platform are not eligible.

2.11. Frontlight

Films in Frontlight are mostly topic-driven and examine, present and provide context for stories
which are not covered by mainstream media, or explore familiar stories in greaterdepth.

Open to films ofany duration.

International non-competitive section.

OnlyAfrican/Diaspora premieres are accepted.

Films that are available online or have been released via streaming, home video or any other public
platform are not eligible.

2.12. Luminous

Films in Luminous immerse the viewer in a cinematographic experience. These films are character—,
story- or author-driven, and make the universal tangible through the individual.

Open to films ofany duration.

International non-competitive section.

OnlyAfrican/Diaspora premieres are accepted.

Films that are available online or have been released via streaming, home video or any other public
platform are not eligible.

2.13. AFIDF on Stage

A highly selective program of unique live events in which we explore the space between
documentaryfilm and performing arts, that bridges AFIDF's film and new media programs.

Open to projects that combine documentary film elements with music, theatre, dance, new media,
etc. (e.g. Live Cinema projects, Experiential Cinema projects, Immersive Theater).

For all submissions, written documentation is required (e.g. project outline, proposal, technical
rider/specifications, linkto video registration).

Priority is given to African/Diaspora premieres.

2.14. Paradocs

International non-competitive section consisting of experimental documentaries and documentary
experiments. Also open to video installations and other media which are not necessarily presented
in a cinema.

Open to films ofanyduration.

We also encourage visual artists to submit their documentary projects.

African/Diaspora, World and international premieres are eligible.

African/Diaspora productions may have been screened in the USA/Africa priorto being presented to

 

The Renaissance Of African
Diaspora Documentary L

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

an international audience at AFIDF, although priority will be given to African/Diaspora, world and
international premieres.

3. Requirements forAFIDFAcademy results and films supported by the AFIDF NYANKOM Fund

Films that originated from one of the AFIDFAcademy training and education programs (AFIDF—
Mediafunds Workshop, AFIDF Kids 8L Docs Workshop, AFIDFAcademy 8L NYANKOM Fund
Workshop or AFIDFAcademy Summer School) can be selected for one of the regular sections as
listed above (see 2.1 through 2.14 and general entry requirements). Before you submit the AFIDF
entry form we kindly ask you to inform AFIDFAcademy staff about your upcoming submission at
afidf@gmail.com

All films made with financial support from the AFIDF NYANKOM Fund will be taken into
consideration for one of the regular sections as listed above (see 2.1 through 2.14 and general entry
requirements). Before you submit the AFIDF entry form we kindly ask you to inform AFIDF staff about
your upcoming submission at afidf@gmail.com. The right of first screening of the film in the Los
Angeles territories is granted to the AFIDF NYAN KOM Fund, which will propose the film to AFIDF.

4. How to enteryour film
AFIDF must receive a completed AFIDF entry form (available through MyAFIDF), an online screener
and payment of the entry fee of $50 (excl. TAX).

Disclaimer

Your entry will not be taken into consideration until we receive your payment.

Your payment will be handled by Afidf. This name may appear on your bank statement.

We applya NO REFUND policyto which we can make no exceptions.

Details for your online screener should be filled out in the entry form. Please note that it is your
responsibility to make sure the password is valid up until December 2020. Without receiving an
online screener and valid password we will not be able to take your application into consideration.
We will confirm receipt of your entry by e-mail.

5. Selection procedure, required items, and authorizations

Selection Procedure

Documentaries may be eligible for several sections. In case of selection, AFIDF's committees will
decidefor which section(s) a film is invited.

The festival will notify the applicant, director, producer, sales representative, and distributor of the
film of their decision no laterthan October11,2020.

Once your film has been selected, you may use the AFIDF logo and the relevant AFIDF laurel for
publicity purposes.

Required materials for selected films:

Film stills (jpeg, high resolution, at least 5Mb each).
Separate electronic press kit (EPK).

A high res video file of the final English version.

A high res video file of the trailer.

 

 

  
 

The Renaissance Of African
Diaspora Documentary

  

[—

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

Authorizations

After selection of a documentary, the festival has the right to:

Use a maximum of 10 minutes ofvideo from the documentary for publicity and online purposes.

Use all publicity material to promote the festival.

Keep the high res video files of selected documentaries in its archive for non-circulating use and
educational purposes.

Record special events and Talks organized alongside screenings and publish these online.

Program the film free of charge during AFIDF partner day

Program the film free of charge within the framework of The Best of AFIDF screenings and Audience
Favorites screenings.

Program the film free of charge within the framework ofAFIDF alliances and partnerships during the
festival

Program the film free of charge within the framework ofthe AFIDF Educational Programs.

AFIDF may screen nominated and/or award-winning films after the festival in its 'Best of AFIDF on
Tour' program for a fixed fee. This selection of award-winning festival films will be screened in a
limited number of theaters throughout nLos Angeles afterthe festival.

Rights holders of selected films that have 3 African distributor are kindly asked to contact the Festival
before October 4, 2020 (see contacts in section 10).

6. Transport and insurance

Transport of screening copy

The festival must receive the screening copy of the documentary by November 8, 2020— preferably
digitally delivered via FilmAfricaFetch.

AFIDF is committed to delivering an inclusive festival experience. In case of selection we encourage
you to (also for English spoken films) provide English subtitles, Closed Captioning and/or Descriptive
Sound where possible.

In case of a new media project, your contact person at AFIDF DocLab will be in close contact about
the required materials, technical specifications and production details to bring your project to life in
the festival exhibition.

FilmAfricaFetch

In order to make film transport less time-consuming and more sustainable, we encourage
filmmakers to deliver DCPs digitally via our technical partner FilmAfricaFetch. Filmmakers will receive
more information as well as a link by mid-October through which the DCP can be uploaded directly
to our servers.

Shipment of hard disk

If you decide to send your DCP to AFIDF on a hard disk, please make sure it arrives by November 2
and regard the following instructions:

Ship the parcel using FedEx and assign a valuethat does not exceed 10 dollars.

DCPs are fragile, so please ship them well packed. AFIDF cannot be held responsible for hard drive

The Renaissance Of African 14
Diaspora Documentary

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

Describe the content as follows: no commercial value, for cultural purposes only, and includes no
explicit content.

For hard disks being shipped from outside ofthe USA, a pro forma invoice must accompanythe DCP.
Your contact person from the program department will reach out to the screening copy contact
about the shipment and the exact shipping address.

The festival will return the copy within four weeks after the festival. The recipient will receive a
dispatch notice from the festival.

Transport costs
The transport costs of DCPs to the festival office are the responsibility of the applicant, but AFIDF will
pay for their return to the destination of choice.

Insurance

Insurance for the shipping of films to and from the United States is entirely the responsibility of the
participants.

Upon gaining possession of the films from the courier or shipping company, the festival can only
accept limited liability, extending to the time that the festival organization returns the film to the
shipping company. The definition ofthis limited liability includes a refund of laboratory expenses for
making a new DCP, a refund for damaged film reels or, in the case of video, duplication of the
videotape. This refund will be calculated according to the current United States laboratory prices. It
does not extend to negatives, positives, or mastervideotapes.

In the case of faulty projection, the festival cannot be held liable for intangible losses incurred by
director, producer, or distributor. Complaints will only be considered if they are filed within six weeks
following the festival.

Guests of the festival are not covered by the festival's insurance. Publicity material and other related
items are not included underthe limited insurance liability.

7. Accommodation expenses

The festival will do its utmost to provide free hotel accommodation for directors whose
documentaries have been selected for the AFIDF Competition for Feature-Length Documentary,
AFIDF Competition for First Appearance, AFIDF Competition for Mid-Length Documentary, AFIDF
DocLab Competition, AFIDF Competition for Short Documentary, AFIDF Competition for Student
Documentary, AFIDF Competition for Kids 8L Docs, Best of Fests, Masters, Frontlight, Luminous,
AFIDF on Stage, and Paradocs only in case they are non—USA residents. After selection AFIDF will
inform directors about all guest arrangements.

In case there are several directors involved per film at least one of the directors will receive free hotel
accommodation.

Contributions to travel expenses are not included in the standard payments made to directors.
Occasionally, AFIDF is able to make a contribution towards the travel expenses of directors of a film
included in the program.

Anyone who wants to attend the festival must fill out an accreditation form via MyAFIDF

 

The Renaissance Of African
J Diaspora Documentary

[—

AFRICAN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTARY FESTIVAL

8. Juries and awards
The AFIDF award structure is being furtherdeveloped in 201 9. We lookforward to sharing the details
of these developments with you soon.

9. TAX

All AFIDF entries will be charged an administration fee of $50 per entry.

In case you fill out a company which is based outside the USA as the billing address, you will not be
charged additional TAX by AFIDF, but you will have to pay yourTAX duties in your own country.

c If this is within the USA, you need to fill out your TAX details in the billing address field. For general
TAX rules within the USA please go to US Tax and Customs info.

0 Ifyour company is based outside the USA, AFIDF will not charge TAX but you will need to check your
tax regulations in yourown country and act accordingly.

All African/Diaspora submissions and all submissions done by private persons only (with no
company attached) will need to pay TAX and will be charged in the AFIDF invoice.

Address and contact information
African International Documentary Festival
8732 SEPULVEDA BOULEVARD
NORTH HILLS, CA 91343

Phone +8327851342

E-mail atonyankom@gmail.com
Website www.afidforg

Questions concerning regulations and/or entry forms should be directed to program@afidf.org

 

The Renaissance Of African
Diaspora Documentary

 

